---
title: User Tooling
layout: page
previous:
  url: vulnerability_definition
  title: Vulnerability Definition
next:
  url: process
  title: Process
---

Users of BEAM languages, such as Erlang and Elixir, have access to several tools
to help them identify if their dependencies are vulnerable to security issues.
These tools enable users to proactively monitor their dependencies for known
vulnerabilities, ensuring the integrity and security of their applications.
Here's an overview of the tooling available:

1. [**Hex Audit (`mix hex.audit`)**](https://hexdocs.pm/hex/Mix.Tasks.Hex.Audit.html):
   - Hex.pm, the package manager for the ecosystem, can retire packages for
     security reasons. The `mix hex.audit` command allows users to check if any
     of their dependencies have been retired due to security concerns.
   - This tool can be integrated into continuous integration (CI) pipelines to
     automatically check dependencies for retirement status, providing early
     warning of potential security risks.

2. [**MixAudit (`mix deps.audit`)**](https://github.com/mirego/mix_audit):
   - MixAudit is a tool that checks if any dependencies in an Elixir project are
     part of disclosed vulnerabilities. It leverages the curated vulnerability
     reports in the GitHub Vulnerability Database.
   - By running `mix deps.audit`, users can quickly identify if any of their
     project dependencies have known vulnerabilities, allowing them to take
     appropriate action to mitigate risks.
   - Similar to `mix hex.audit`, MixAudit can be incorporated into CI workflows
     to automate vulnerability checks and ensure continuous security monitoring.

3. **Commercial Tools (e.g., [Paraxial.io](https://paraxial.io/))**:
   - Commercial solutions like Paraxial.io offer advanced features for
     monitoring dependency vulnerabilities at runtime.
   - These tools provide real-time reporting and alerts when a dependency
     becomes vulnerable, allowing users to react promptly to emerging security
     threats.
   - Leveraging curated vulnerability reports from sources like the GitHub
     Vulnerability Database, these tools offer comprehensive coverage and
     accuracy in identifying security issues.

By utilizing these tools, users of BEAM languages can stay vigilant against
potential security vulnerabilities in their dependencies. Whether through
retirement status checks, static analysis of disclosed vulnerabilities, or
real-time monitoring at runtime, these tools empower developers to make informed
decisions and take proactive measures to secure their applications. Integrating
these tools into CI pipelines ensures that security checks are performed
consistently and automatically, reducing the risk of exposure to known
vulnerabilities throughout the development lifecycle.

The retirement of packages in Hex and the proper disclosure of vulnerabilities
in GitHub are essential for users of dependency vulnerability monitoring tools
to effectively identify and mitigate security risks. When a package is retired
in Hex due to security concerns, it signifies that the package is no longer
considered safe for use, and users should transition away from it to maintain
the security of their applications. Tools like `mix hex.audit` rely on the
retirement status provided by Hex to flag dependencies that may pose security
risks. Without accurate retirement information, users may unknowingly continue
to use deprecated or vulnerable packages, leaving their applications susceptible
to exploitation.

Similarly, the proper disclosure of vulnerabilities in the GitHub Vulnerability
Database is crucial for tools like MixAudit to identify known security issues in
project dependencies. When vulnerabilities are disclosed and documented in the
GitHub database, tools can cross-reference dependencies against these reports to
determine if any components are affected. This ensures that users are promptly
notified of vulnerabilities in their dependencies, enabling them to take
immediate action to update or replace vulnerable packages. However, without
comprehensive and up-to-date vulnerability disclosures, users may miss critical
security alerts, leaving their applications exposed to potential attacks.
Therefore, transparent and timely disclosure of vulnerabilities in publicly
accessible databases is fundamental for maintaining the effectiveness of
dependency vulnerability monitoring tools and safeguarding the integrity of BEAM
language applications.